>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're gonna
jump into the meat of our solution for
deleting a node from a binary search tree.
So can I just see a show of hands
of who was able to get the binary
search tree validation function working?
Okay, cool, about half.
And then who was able to get cases for
the leaf to work?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
one node?
>> Speaker 2: Our cases worked,
just [LAUGH] [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
we're trying to put them together.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Two nodes?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about for
the case where it's a root?
>> Speaker 3: We didn't get that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, cool.
Jen, did you account for the root?
Do you have [CROSSTALK] yet?
>> Jen: I think I have root,
but I don't have the other one.
I have the parents.
Eh, that's what I'm fighting.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Fighting with your
parents?
>> Jen: Yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Typical,
[LAUGH] just kidding.
Okay, here we go.
So if this is found, so
this is assuming that we're gonna search
through our binary search tree and
find the value.
So once it's found,
we're gonna enter into this if statement.
So the first thing you wanna do is you
wanna figure out how many children there
are.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we add if there's a child, then it's 1.
If it's a child on the left,
then add 1, otherwise 0.
If there's a right add 1, otherwise add 0.
Cool, so we have a tiernary
operator with some addition.
And it's literally just counting
if there's 0, 1, or 2 children.
Any questions about this,
what's going on there?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Can I get thumbs,
we're good?
Okay, so if the value is at the root,
we're gonna enter into this.
So we're gonna just do a switch statement,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: On how
many children there are.
So if there are 2,
then we're going to set
a replacement to the root's left.
Okay, and then you wanna find
the right-most leaf node, and
it's gonna be the new root.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does that make sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're
gonna keep going right.
So while replacement.right is not null,
we're gonna keep incrementing.
replacementParent is gonna be replacement.
Cool, so there's us tracking
that replacementParent, cool?
So this is getting us to the right-most
node in our binary search tree.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, so
here is the case if it's
not the first node on
the left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then
we're gonna remove the new road [LAUGH],
road, the new root from
its previous position.
So here we are putting the left's
replacement onto the replacementParent's
right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then
we're gonna give the new root all
of the old root's children, right?
And by all of them, we mean both.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Got any questions?
So otherwise we'll just make our,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Our assignment here.
Actually, I'm lost at what this is doing.
Replace right with this._root.right.
Okay.
So you're going to take
the root's right and
put it into its final position.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
this._root is a replacement.
So here's a way to get around
the assigning this equals this,
is if we give our tree data structure,
our constructor, a root.
Yeah, so
just like we had a storage in our,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: In other data
structures we've made,
this implementation, and
this is Nicholas Zakas' implementation,
has a root in its constructor.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
the other way of doing this is we would
just assign it to the value instead of
the entire node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
So that's for
the case where it's the root, right?
Which is kind of a special case,
a little more complicating.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
So otherwise, there are two children,
this is when remember we are going to
take the left-most node of the right
node.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Did
you guys get that?
>> Speaker 2: And
then of the right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
I'll just show you the picture, so.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
The left-most of the right and we replace
it, so that's what we're doing here.
Cool, so here's a replacement,
current.left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This one's actually
going the other way.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: current.left.
So this one's just going the other way.
So replacementParent is current.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here's
our current.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So and
we're gonna find the right-most
node instead of the left-most node.
This is just an opposite implementation.
If you wanna switch it,
you just change left and right.
So I'll go all the way, all the way,
all the way to the right-most node.
And the replacementParent,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is just gonna be
the one right above that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
and then we just swap them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then we assign
the children.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then you swap them.
So instead of,
how'd we do it in the pseudocode?
We said something like we were just gonna
keep track if it was on the left or
the right or
something like that, of the parent.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
we were passing a parent relationship.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
what we could do is just
compare the values instead.
And we give the left the replacement or
the right the replacement,
depending on if the current value is
bigger than the parent value, right?
Cuz if it's bigger it goes on the right,
if it's lesser, it goes on the left.
And those are our cases, or
that's the third case at
least.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
It's kind of a lot.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's deleting a node
from a binary search tree.